[CAS-1180] Add Push Notification docs (#2204)
GetStream/stream-chat-android: docusaurus/docs/Android/02-client/06-guides/01-push-notifications.md

The user will receive a push notification if they're watching a channel but don't have an open socket connection.

To receive push notifications from the Stream server the first step you need to do is register the device. When you register a device with the Stream server you need to provide two things:
* The "Push Provider" you want to use.
* The token that this Push Provider generated for this device.

To register the device, you can use the following approach:

```kotlin
val token: String = obtainTokenFromYourPushProvider()
val device: Device = Device(
  token = token,
  pushProvider = PushProvider.FIREBASE,
)
ChatClient.setDevice(device)
```

:::note
Make sure _ChatClient_ is initialized before handling push notifications. We highly recommend initializing it in the `Application` class.
:::

Once you have a token that your provider generated, you create a new `Device` that you set in our `ChatClient`. For the provider, you used `PushProvider.FIREBASE`.

Make sure to check out the [list of supported providers](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-android/blob/main/stream-chat-android-client/src/main/java/io/getstream/chat/android/client/models/Device.kt).

> Now that you have your `device` registered, the Stream Server will start to send you push notifications. Your Push Provider SDK implementation will receive the notifications and you will need to generate a `PushMessage` with the received data.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you have your `device` registered, the Stream Server will start sending you push notifications. Your Push Provider SDK implementation will receive the notifications and you will need to generate a `PushMessage` with the received data.
```

* `asyncGenerateDevice((Device) -> Unit)`: This function allows you control how you generate the `Device` that you'll register with the `ChatClient`. Once you create a `Device`, pass it to the `onDeviceGenerated()` callback.

Now that you've implemented your custom `PushDeviceGenerator` you need to inject it into the `ChatClient`:

```kotlin
val notificationConfig = NotificationConfig(
  pushDeviceGenerators = listOf(MyPushDeviceGenerator())
)
ChatClient.Builder("apiKey", context)
    .notifications(ChatNotificationHandler(context, notificationsConfig))
    .build()
```

Here you first create a `NotificationConfig` that describes how you want to configure push notifications. In this case, you passed in a custom `PushDeviceGenerator`.

Then you use the `ChatClient.Builder` to add `notifications()` configuration to the client, before building it.

## Companion Artifacts

> The push notification integration process is not complicated, but we're don't want to add it into our main SDK by default.

Author: ```suggestion
The push notification integration process is not complicated, but we don't want to add it into our main SDK by default.
```

The two main reasons are the following:
* Adding this default implementation increases the size of our SDK.
* Some customers don't want push notifications in their chat implementation.

With time, we'll dedicate more time to building and exposing more providers for you to use.

Let's see which providers we currently expose and how to use them!

### Stream Firebase PushProvider implementation
We provide an artifact with all the implementation needed to work with **Firebase**. To use it follow the next steps:

#### Step 1
Configure your app to use Firebase Cloud Messaging as described in the [Firebase documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/android/client).

> You only need to setup the FCM dependencies and add a _google-services.json_ file to your project source directory.

Author: ```suggestion
You just need to set up the FCM dependencies and add a _google-services.json_ file to your project source directory.
```

Besides [Events](https://getstream.io/chat/docs/android/event_listening/?language=kotlin), push notifications are another way to stay up to date with changes to the chat.
The user will receive a push notification if they're watching a channel but don't have an open socket connection.
To receive push notification from Stream server the first step you need to do is register the device. When you register a device on Stream server you need to provide the "Push Provider" you want to use and the token that this Push Provider generated for this device.
```kotlin
val token: String = obtainTokenFromYourPushProvider()
val device: Device = Device(
  token = token,
  pushProvider = PushProvider.FIREBASE, // You can check the different Push Provider supported here: https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-android/blob/main/stream-chat-android-client/src/main/java/io/getstream/chat/android/client/models/Device.kt
)
ChatClient.setDevice(device)
```

> Now that you have your `device` registered, Stream Server will start to send you push notification. Push Notifications will be received by the implementation your Push Provider SDK provides you, and you will need to generated a `PushMessage` instance with the received data and send it to our `ChatClient`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have your `device` registered, Stream Server will start sending you push notifications. Push notifications will be received by your Push Provider SDK's  implementation, and you will need to create a `PushMessage` object with the received data and send it to our `ChatClient`
```

:::note
Make sure _ChatClient_ is initialized before handling push notifications. We highly recommend initializing it in the `Application` class.
:::

```kotlin
val data: YourPushProviderContainer
val pushMessage: PushMessage = PushMessage(
  messageId = data.get("message_id"),
  channelId = data.get("channel_id"),
  channelType = data.get("channel_type")
)
ChatClient.handlePushMessage(pushMessage)
```

It is all you need to do client-side to integrate push notification by yourselves.  
We also provide some [Companion Artifacts](#companion-artifacts) that help you with the integration process.

## PushDeviceGenerator
Our SDK allows you to provide an implementation of `PushDeviceGenerator` and handle all the needed process to obtain and register a device into Stream.

> The `PushDeviceGenerator` is an interface that asks you to implement two method. After you implement it you need inject it into our `ChatClient`, let me show you an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `PushDeviceGenerator` is an interface that asks you to implement two methods. After you implement it, you need inject it into `ChatClient`, let me show you an example:
```

        // Here you can check if your provider could be used on this device and return true on the case it can be used on this device
        return true
    }
    
    override fun asyncGenerateDevice(onDeviceGenerated: (device: Device) -> Unit) {
        // Here you will need to impelemnt the logic to obtain the token from your push provider and then generate the device instance
        val token = obtainTokenFromYourPushProvider()
        onDeviceGenerated(
            Device(
                token = token,
                pushProvider = PushProvider.FIREBASE, // You can check the different Push Provider supported here: https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-android/blob/main/stream-chat-android-client/src/main/java/io/getstream/chat/android/client/models/Device.kt
            )
        )
    }
}

val notificationConfig = NotificationConfig(
  pushDeviceGenerators = listOf(MyPushDeviceGenerator())
)
ChatClient.Builder("apiKey", context)
    .notifications(ChatNotificationHandler(context, notificationsConfig))
    .build()
```

## Companion Artifacts

> The push notification integration process is not complicated, but some jobs that we can provide to you from our SDK.  

Reviewer 2: `The push notification integration process is not complicated, but some jobs that we can provide to you from our SDK` This sentence is a bit hard to understand for me.

> We are not adding this implementation into our main SDK for multiple reason, the main one is adding this default implementation increase the size of our SDK because new dependencies are needed, and could be some customers that doesn't want push notification at all on their chat implementation.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are not adding this implementation into our main SDK for multiple reasons. The main one is adding this default implementation increases the size of our SDK because new dependencies are needed and some customers don't want push notifications on their chat implementation.  
```

Reviewer 2: The second setence is a bit long. Maybe something like: 
```
The main one is adding this default implementation increases the size of our SDK because new dependencies are needed. Not all customers want push notifications on their chat implementation, then..... [we decided to remove it/ it would be an uncessary size increase/ it kept it out to make the SDK small] .
```

From time to time we will provide implementation for different provider.

### Stream Firebase PushProvider implementation
We provide an artifact with all the implementation needed to work with Firebase. To use it follow the next steps:

#### Step 1
Configure your app to use Firebase Cloud Messaging as described on the [Firebase documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/android/client)

> You only need to setup the dependencies and _google-services.json_ file to your project source directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You just need to set up the gradle dependencies and add _google-services.json_ file to your project source directory.
```

    override fun onNewToken(token: String) {
        // Update device's token on Stream backend
        try {
            ChatClient.setDevice(
                Device(
                    token = token,
                    pushProvider = PushProvider.FIREBASE,
                )
            )
        } catch (exception: IllegalStateException) {
            // ChatClient was not initialized
        }
    }

    override fun onMessageReceived(message: RemoteMessage) {
        try {
            // Check if the message from Firebase contains needed data and generate a PushMessage instance
            val pushMessage = PushMessage(
                channelId = data["channel_id"]!!,
                messageId = data["message_id"]!!,
                channelType = data["channel_type"]!!,
            )
            ChatClient.handlePushMessage(pushMessage)
        } catch (exception: IllegalStateException) {
            // ChatClient was not initialized
        }
    }
}
```

:::note
Make sure that CustomMessageFirebaseService's priority is higher than -1 to override the default service
:::

### Stream Huawei PushProvider implementation

> It is not ready yet, but we will implement it soon and release on the following releases. Be tuned

Reviewer 2: `release on the following releases` I'm not sure if it is **in** or **on**.

Reviewer: How about: `We are working on it currently and will release it shortly. Stay tuned.`

Consider overriding _ChatNotificationHandler#getErrorCaseIntent_ for error case notifications
:::

### Create a custom notification
The SDK allows you to generate the notification that will be shown after a push notification is received.

> All you need to do is override the `buildNotification()` method as shown on the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All you need to do is override the `buildNotification()` method as shown in the following example:
```

```kotlin
    val notificationHandler = MyNotificationHandler(context, notificationsConfig)

    ChatClient.Builder("{{ api_key }}", context)
                .notifications(notificationHandler)
                .build()
                
    class MyNotificationHandler(context: Context, notificationConfig: NotificationConfig) :
        ChatNotificationHandler(context, notificationConfig) {

        override fun buildNotification(
            notificationId: Int,
            channel: Channel,
            message: Message
        ): NotificationCompat.Builder {
            // Here you are able to build your own notification and return the builder that generates it
            return NotificationCompact.Builder(context, CHANNEL_NOTIFICATION_ID)
                .setDefaults(NotificationCompat.DDEFAULT_ALL)
                // Customize your notification builder here
        }
    }
```

## Configuring Push Notifications on Stream Dashboard

> To be able to receive PushNotifications from Stream Server, you need to provide the PushProvider Credential to Stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to receive push notifications from the Stream Server, you need to provide the PushProvider Credential to Stream.
```

Consider overriding _ChatNotificationHandler#getErrorCaseIntent_ for error case notifications
:::

### Create a custom notification

> The SDK allow you to generate the notification that will be shown after a push notification is received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SDK allows you to generate the notification that will be shown after a push notification is received.
```

All you need to do is override the `buildNotification()` method as shown on the following example:

```kotlin
    val notificationHandler = MyNotificationHandler(context, notificationsConfig)

    ChatClient.Builder("{{ api_key }}", context)
                .notifications(notificationHandler)
                .build()
                
    class MyNotificationHandler(context: Context, notificationConfig: NotificationConfig) :
        ChatNotificationHandler(context, notificationConfig) {

        override fun buildNotification(
            notificationId: Int,
            channel: Channel,
            message: Message
        ): NotificationCompat.Builder {
            // Here you are able to build your own notification and return the builder that generates it
            return NotificationCompact.Builder(context, CHANNEL_NOTIFICATION_ID)
                .setDefaults(NotificationCompat.DDEFAULT_ALL)
                // Customize your notification builder here
        }
    }
```

## Configuring Push Notifications on Stream Dashboard
To be able to receive PushNotifications from Stream Server, you need to provide the PushProvider Credential to Stream.

> It needs to be done in our Dashboard

Reviewer 2: `It needs to be done in Stream's Dashboard` or your Stream's Dashboard

    }
```

You extended the `ChatNotificationHandler` to provide a custom implementation. Notice the `getNewMessageIntent()` override.

This function allows you to intercept a notification and build a custom `Intent` that can point to any `Activity` in your app. You can also add custom data to the `Intent` if you need it.

Now that you've created a custom handler, you need to apply it to the `ChatClient`, like so:

```kotlin
val notificationHandler = MyNotificationHandler(context, notificationsConfig)

ChatClient.Builder("{{ api_key }}", context)
            .notifications(notificationHandler) <--
            .build()
```

:::note
Consider overriding `ChatNotificationHandler.getErrorCaseIntent()` for error case notifications.
:::

### Create a custom notification

The SDK also allows you to generate the notification UI that users see after they receive a push notification.

> All you need to do is override `buildNotification()` as shown on the following example:

Author: ```suggestion
All you need to do is override `buildNotification()` as shown in the following example:
```

    class MyNotificationHandler(context: Context, notificationConfig: NotificationConfig) :
        ChatNotificationHandler(context, notificationConfig) {

        override fun buildNotification(
            notificationId: Int,
            channel: Channel,
            message: Message
        ): NotificationCompat.Builder {
            // Build your notification
            return NotificationCompact.Builder(context, CHANNEL_NOTIFICATION_ID)
                .setDefaults(NotificationCompat.DEFAULT_ALL)
                // Customize your notification builder here
        }
    }
```

Within `buildNotification()` you receive the `notificationId` and the `Channel` and `Message` that this notification came from.

You can use the `NotificationCompat.Builder()` to customize the notification appearance and default values and behaviour.

Finally, once you're done, inject the `ChatNotificationHandler` into the `ChatClient`:

```kotlin
val notificationHandler = MyNotificationHandler(context, notificationsConfig)

ChatClient.Builder("{{ api_key }}", context)
            .notifications(notificationHandler)
            .build()
```

## Configuring Push Notifications on Stream Dashboard

> To be able to receive PushNotifications from Stream Server, you need to provide the `PushProvider` **credential** to Stream.

Author: ```suggestion
To be able to receive push notifications from the Stream Server, you need to provide the `PushProvider` **credential** to Stream.
```
